Add documentation page about nodes (#234)
Happy-Algorithms-League/hal-cgp: docs/documentation/nodes.rst

=====
Nodes
=====

> Nodes are the buildings blocks of the mathematical expressions represented by an individual.
> They are selected in the invididual's genome (see :ref:`pop_ind`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nodes define the buildings blocks of the mathematical expressions represented by an individual.
They are represented in the invididual's genome (see :ref:`pop_ind`).
```

> A node takes a certain number of inputs (specified by its `arity` which can also be 0) and transforms them into one output value. A priori, there are no limitations regarding the type of transformation, as long as it can be expressed in pure Python, SymPy_, PyTorch_, and NumPy_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A node receives data from a certain number of input nodes (specified by its `arity` which can be any non-zero number) and transforms them into an output value. A priori, there are no limitations regarding the type of transformation, as long as it can be expressed in pure Python, SymPy_, PyTorch_, and NumPy_.
```
i would avoid saying "one output" since the numpy functions operate on batches

Author: your change is not correct, I think, because the arity can be zero.

Reviewer: good point, of course i meant "non-negative" ;)

Author: okay, impemented.

----------------------------

> Implemented nodes in hal-cgp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default nodes in hal-cgp
```
maybe?

----------------------------

hal-cgp comes with a set of implemented nodes:

- The `InputNode` and `OutputNode` are special nodes that represent the input to and output from the computational graph.

> - A set of basic mathematical operations is implemented as operator nodes: addition (``Add``), subtraction (``Sub``), multiplication (``Mul``), division (``Div``) and power (``Pow``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A set of basic mathematical operations is implemented as `OoperatorNodes`: addition (``Add``), subtraction (``Sub``), multiplication (``Mul``), division (``Div``) and power (``Pow``).
```
could we link to the docstring for `OperatorNodes`?

- A `ConstantFloat` that represents a constant in mathematical expressions.

> - A `ParameterNode` that holds adjustable parameter (see :ref:`local_search`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A `ParameterNode` that represents an adjustable parameter (see :ref:`local_search`).
```

------------
Custom nodes
------------

In hal-cgp, it is straightforward to implement new, custom nodes.

> The custom nodes needs to be implemented as a subclass of the `OperatorNode` (:meth:`cgp.node.OperatorNode`) and define its ``arity`` as well as its transformation, defined by the ``_def_output`` member of the class. The ``_def_output`` string defines the transformation in pure Python and is used to define the transformation in SymPy_, PyTorch_, and Numpy_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The custom nodes needs to be implemented as a subclass of the `OperatorNode` (:meth:`cgp.node.OperatorNode`) and define its ``arity`` as well as its transformation, defined by the ``_def_output`` member of the class. The ``_def_output`` string defines the transformation in pure Python and is used to automatically define the transformation in SymPy_, PyTorch_, and Numpy_. In this string `x_i` refers to the `i`th input to the node.
```

As a simple example, we implement a custom node that doubles its input:

  .. code-block:: python

		  
     import cgp

>      import math

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Don't we need to import this package if we use it in the string?

Author: How does this work if we don't import it?

Reviewer: man you're asking questions i can't answer ;) i think it's important that the packages are available when the function is compiled, i.e., in `cartesian_graph.py`. since the expression is not evaluated here i don't think you need the imports, could you give that a try please?

i wanted to look into this problem more deeply bc if we can provide a "compilation context" (context managers ftw?) for nodes, we might be able to define and use arbitrary functions in `_def_output`, sort of like:
```python
def myifelse(x_0, x_1, x_2):
    if x_0 < 0:
        return x_1
    else:
        return x_2

class MyIfElseNode(cgp.OperatorNode):
    _arity = 3
    _def_output = "myifelse(x_0, x_1, x_2)"
```

this would provide great flexibility:tm:

Reviewer: ah, and for completeness, in this node you don't use `math` ;)

Author: Right, yes. Okay, the import is not required, indeed.
But yes, we have to find a solution for this, because relying on imports in `cartesian_graph.py` is not a good solution. Can you create an issue for that?

Reviewer: done

     
     class Double(cgp.OperatorNode): 

>          """ A node that calculates the exponential of its input. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         """ A node that doubles its input. 
```

	 """ 
	 _arity = 1 
	 _def_output = "2*x_0"

> If the representation of the transformation in SymPy_, PyTorch_, or NumPy_ differs from pure Python, we need to define dedicated expressions with additional class members. For instance, to implement a node that computes the exponential of an input, we define the same operation in four different expressions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the representation of the transformation in SymPy_, PyTorch_, or NumPy_ differs from pure Python, we need to define dedicated expressions via the `_def_X_output` members. For instance, to implement a node that computes the exponential of an input, we define the same operation in four different expressions:
```

	 
  .. code-block:: python

		  
     import cgp

>      import math

Reviewer: either remove math or add sympy numpy and torch

Author: how does this work if we don't import math?

Author: see above

     
     class Exp(cgp.OperatorNode): 
         """ A node that calculates the exponential of its input. 
	 """ 
	 _arity = 1 
	 _def_output = "math.exp(x_0)" 
	 _def_numpy_output = "np.exp(x_0)" 
	 _def_torch_output = "torch.exp(x_0)"
	 _def_sympy_output = "exp(x_0)"

	
	 

> For a complete example that uses custom nodes, please refer to :ref:`sphx_glr_auto_examples_example_parametrized_nodes.py`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a complete example that uses custom nodes with adjustable parameters, please refer to :ref:`sphx_glr_auto_examples_example_parametrized_nodes.py`.
```

=====
Nodes
=====

Nodes define the buildings blocks of the mathematical expressions represented by an individual.
They are represented in the invididual's genome (see :ref:`pop_ind`).

A node receives data from a certain number of input nodes (specified by its `arity` which can be any non-negative number) and transforms them into one output value. A priori, there are no limitations regarding the type of transformation, as long as it can be expressed in pure Python, SymPy_, PyTorch_, and NumPy_.

----------------------------
Default nodes in hal-cgp
----------------------------

hal-cgp comes with a set of implemented nodes:

- The `InputNode` and `OutputNode` are special nodes that represent the input to and output from the computational graph.

> - A set of basic mathematical operations is implemented as `OoperatorNodes`: addition (``Add``), subtraction (``Sub``), multiplication (``Mul``), division (``Div``) and power (``Pow``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A set of basic mathematical operations is implemented as `OperatorNodes`: addition (``Add``), subtraction (``Sub``), multiplication (``Mul``), division (``Div``) and power (``Pow``).
```

As a simple example, we implement a custom node that doubles its input:

  .. code-block:: python

		  
     import cgp
     import math

     
     class Double(cgp.OperatorNode): 
         """ A node that doubles its input. 
	 """ 
	 _arity = 1 
	 _def_output = "2*x_0"

If the representation of the transformation in SymPy_, PyTorch_, or NumPy_ differs from pure Python, we need to define dedicated expressions via the `_def_X_output` members. For instance, to implement a node that computes the exponential of an input, we define the same operation in four different expressions:
	 
  .. code-block:: python

		  
     import cgp
     import math

     
     class Exp(cgp.OperatorNode): 
         """ A node that calculates the exponential of its input. 
	 """ 
	 _arity = 1 
	 _def_output = "math.exp(x_0)" 
	 _def_numpy_output = "np.exp(x_0)" 
	 _def_torch_output = "torch.exp(x_0)"
	 _def_sympy_output = "exp(x_0)"

	

> We can make this custom mode more flexible by adding an adjustable Parameter for the scale of the exponential.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can make this custom mode more flexible by adding an adjustable parameter for the scale of the exponential. Parameter names are enclosed by angle brackets in the expressions. Furthermore, each parameter requires a function that returns its initial values to be defined in the `_initial_values` dict.
```

> To this end, we add the ``<scale>`` term in the expressions and define its initial value in the ``_initial_values`` class member:

Reviewer: interesting `<scale>` actually works as a name? nice!

Author: Running this code snippet doesn't fail at least, so it passes the validation.

> To this end, we add the ``<scale>`` term in the expressions and define its initial value in the ``_initial_values`` class member:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We add the ``<scale>`` term in the expressions and define its initial value in the ``_initial_values`` class member:
```
(only if you use the changes above)

	 
  .. code-block:: python

		  
     import cgp
     import math

     
     class Exp(cgp.OperatorNode): 

>          """ A node that calculates the exponential of its input. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         """ A node that calculates the exponential of its input. An adjustable parameter governs the scale.
```
